Advance your association with the powerhouse collaboration of Nimble AMS and RSM

Nimble AMS is proud to share our partnership with RSM! Our Nimble AMS team has worked with RSM for several years, resulting in a powerhouse collaboration, offering innovative solutions to empower associations. “RMS was one of Nimble AMS’ first implementation partners and has been a valued, longtime partner,” said Jeffrey Golembiewski, VP, Business Solutions & Partnerships at Nimble AMS. “The RSM implementation team comprises some of the industry’s most seasoned consultants, offering expertise and confidence to all Nimble AMS implementations, and ensuring happy customers.”  

Discover how the Nimble AMS and RSM partnership can advance your organization and inspire digital transformation. 

“As a CAE, and having been a CIO at an association, I understand the unique challenges inherent in developing and maintaining a high-performing organization in our industry,” said Craig Dellorso, Director of Nonprofit Relationship Management Solutions at RSM US LLP. “Our partnership with Nimble AMS coupled with our deep industry experience and knowledge enables us to help associations lay the foundation and framework to achieve that goal.”

The history of the Nimble AMS and RSM partnership

We recently met with Craig Dellorso, Director of Nonprofit Relationship Management Solutions at RSM US, LLP. We asked about Dellorso’s impression of the Nimble AMS and RSM partnership:

How long have Nimble AMS and RSM been in partnership?   

Dellorso: The partnership between RSM and Nimble AMS started with RSM’s acquisition of Confluence Global, which had been a partner providing implementation and support of the Nimble AMS product since 2017.

What was the original goal of forming our partnership? How has that changed or evolved into our current–day partnership?

Dellorso: Our original partnership was forged with one goal in mind—enable associations to leverage their people, process, and technology to elevate their mission through the power of the Nimble AMS and Salesforce platform. Our current partnership is still focused on that core tenet but has grown and evolved dramatically.

As a Salesforce Summit Partner, holding 250 Salesforce Certifications and with over 1500 engagements completed, RSM offers Nimble AMS and its customers the ability to fully leverage all of Salesforce’s tools and capabilities to fully engage their members and exceed their expectations.

“The Nimble AMS and RSM partnership was forged with one goal in mind—enable associations to leverage their people, process, and technology to elevate their mission through the power of the Nimble AMS and Salesforce platform,” said Dellorso.

What attracts RSM to Nimble AMS and Salesforce? 

Dellorso: RSM is dedicated to being a first-choice advisor for our clients. We felt this aligned well with how Community Brands, Nimble AMS, and Salesforce think about and treat their customers.  We also believe that the power of the Salesforce platform and the association–specific features of Nimble AMS gave us the flexibility and power to help our clients meet some of their most challenging objectives. 

“The rich feature set and ease of configuration associated with Nimble AMS provides the ability to drive member growth and engagement for our clients,” said Dellorso.

What does RSM like about working with Nimble AMS and Community Brands? 

Dellorso: Transparency is a key component of our relationship with Community Brands and has laid the foundation for a rock-solid partnership. We really value the support we get from the Nimble AMS and Community Brands teams both in assisting our clients and growing our practice, all working together in one direction. The rich feature set and ease of configuration associated with Nimble AMS provides the ability to drive member growth and engagement for our clients.   

The Nimble AMS core-association functionality…combined with RSM’s association and Salesforce experience provides all associations the ability to achieve digital transformation,” said Dellorso.

What is RSM’s connection to associations? 

Dellorso: As the leading provider of consulting services to the middle market, RSM has a long history of supporting associations across all areas of their businesses. RSM has been developing, implementing, and supporting association management software (AMS) and customer relationship management (CRM) solutions for associations since 1993. 

With over 50 consultants dedicated to our AMS practice, whose average industry experience is over 15 years, and many who have worked at an association, RSM provides deep industry knowledge you can’t find anywhere else. We have 3 CAEs on staff that are involved with our AMS practice, lead engagements, and bring an association-specific point of view to all we do. 

How can associations benefit from working with Nimble AMS and RSM? 

Dellorso: The Nimble AMS core-association functionality, ease of configuration, and native extensibility combined with RSM’s association and Salesforce experience, capabilities, and depth provide all associations the ability to achieve digital transformation and more effectively grow, retain, and engage your membership.  