Dreamforce 2023: 3 big takeaways for association professionals

Dreamforce 2023 was a blast! Our Nimble AMS team had a wonderful time connecting with all 200,000+ Salesforce trailblazers in San Franciso.  

Didn’t make it to #DF23? No worries! Our Nimble AMS trailblazers have three key takeaways for your organization.  

Dreamforce 2023 is over but the magic lives on. Catch #DF23 on-demand and discover all things Salesforce. Watch now!

3 Dreamforce 2023 takeaways for association professionals
With over 1,500 sessions and more than 75 Artificial Intelligence trailblazers, we learned so much at Dreamforce 2023. Here are three key takeaways you can leverage at your association: 

1. The future of AI 
Artificial Intelligence was everywhere at #DF23! From session topics to group conversations, AI was at the top of everyone’s minds. During Dreamforce, Salesforce made a major AI announcement—The New Einstein 1 Platform will offer major advancements for Salesforce Data Cloud and Einstein AI. Soon, Artificial Intelligence will power the next generation of all Salesforce applications with Einstein Copilot, a conversational AI assistant.   
 
As AI drives big societal changes, nonprofits and associations will play an important role in the future. Salesforce Einstein AI already completes 1 trillion predictions a week. Imagine how your organization could enhance member engagement by leveraging AI. Soon with Data Cloud and Einstein AI native to the new Einstein 1 Platform, nonprofits and associations will be able to create AI-powered apps and workflows maximizing the full cycle of funding, delivering, and measuring impact. 

2. Personalize the customer experience
At Dreamforce 2023, we learned about the importance of leveraging technology, data, and generative AI to personalize the customer experience. According to Salesforce research, 70% of customers expect personalized interactions across channels and ¾ of customers get frustrated when personalization doesn’t happen.  
 
When it comes to meeting the personalized needs of members, associations should heed this Salesforce research. Your members are looking for customized services and benefits. Leverage innovative technology to get the job done!

3. Lead with trust
Dreamforce featured a riveting conversation between Academy Award-Winning Actor, Matthew McConaughey and Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff. The pair discussed the importance of embodying trust in leadership, provided strategies on how to establish trust as a leader, and offered thoughts on how to unlock a better future.  
 
All association leaders will want to check out this discussion between McConaughey and Benioff, offering invaluable advice and anecdotes.

Our Nimble AMS team had such a fantastic time at Dreamforce 2023. We hope our helpful takeaways will tide you over until Dreamforce 2024. We can’t wait to see you next year at #DF24!

