Dreamforce 2023: Four big reasons to attend the Salesforce annual conference

The Nimble AMS team is attending Dreamforce 2023, are you? Dreamforce is Salesforce’s annual conference featuring over 1,500 sessions with more than 75 AI thought leaders. You won’t want to miss Dreamforce 2023, scheduled for September 12-14 in San Francisco.  

Dreamforce unites our incredible community of Salesforce Trailblazers so we can all learn and grow from each other’s successes. If you can’t make it to San Francisco this year, don’t worry! You can still register to attend Dreamforce virtually and view live sessions, keynotes, and on-demand episodes for free on Salesforce+.  

Keep reading for more details on why your association should register for Dreamforce 2023.

Who can attend Dreamforce 2023?
Everyone is welcome to attend Dreamforce. The conference attracts not only Salesforce customers, but individuals interested in Salesforce solutions, and industry thought leaders. Salesforce estimates that over 170,000 individuals from over 100 countries attend Dreamforce. 

“I love Salesforce because the platform has opened so many opportunities for me to create a software ecosystem that is tailored specifically to my needs and use cases, without needing to adapt any complex code!” said Collier Faubion, Nimble AMS Senior Solutions Engineer.

What are the top reasons you should attend Dreamforce 2023? 
There are plenty of reasons you’ll want to attend Dreamforce. But here are our top four:  

1. Dreamforce offers results.
According to a Salesforce-based survey, 93% of Dreamforce attendees learned something that helped solve an organizational challenge. Another 93% saved time by learning how to create efficiencies in their organization. 90% of respondents learned a solution to help engage their constituents. Finally, 89% discovered a new tool or product that helped their organization.  
 
You can’t argue with those numbers! 

2. Volunteer opportunities
Each year Dreamforce attendees can volunteer in sustainability, diversity, inclusion, and equality efforts. Look for more opportunities at the conference to give back to something bigger.

3. Manageable for associations 
Even though Dreamforce is a large event with over 170,000 attendees, you can still easily run into someone you know. Because of this, the major event feels like an epic family reunion. Make plans to run into industry peers and colleagues.

Looking to meet up with more association professionals? Register for the Groove & Grow Happy Hour, featuring our Nimble AMS team and Aplusify partners.

We look forward to seeing you on September 12 at 5-8 PM. Register now.

4. Foo Fighters 
Need we say more? The Foo Fighters will be headlining this year’s Dreamfest, which is the official concert of Dreamforce. Event proceeds benefit UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospitals. 

What Dreamforce 2023 sessions should you attend? 
With over 1,500 sessions that you can curate by your industry, role, and interest, choosing the right session might feel a little overwhelming. All sessions are first come, first seated, so you’ll want to do your research before you arrive at Dreamforce.

To help you narrow down your session list, here are some sessions our team can’t wait to attend: 

- Matthew McConaughey. You won’t want to miss Matthew McConaughey’s session at Dreamforce 2023. The Academy Award Winning Actor and Salesforce Brand Partner is ready to offer impactful insights.
- Dreamforce 2023 Keynote. Join the CEO of Salesforce, Marc Benioff, in this exciting Dreamforce Keynote address.
- Innovation and Change Management Is a Team Sport. Discover how to create a data strategy and prepare your association for upcoming innovations. Learn from Nicole - Adair, Salesforce Principal Solution Engineer, and other Salesforce experts during this exciting session.
- Driving Efficiencies and Productivity with Your Investments. You won’t want to miss this captivating conversation on how to improve your staff and member experiences by leveraging AI and analytics.
- Einstein for Flow for Admins. Looking for tips to elevate your use of AI? Add this session to your list to learn more about leveraging Flow’s revolutionary power.
- A Smarter Way to Work: Driving Customer Loyalty with AI. Uncover strategies to organize your data, leverage AI, and drive member loyalty.
- Prepare Your Salesforce Data for the AI Revolution. Noticing a trend yet? AI is all the rage at Dreamforce 2023, and attending this session will offer AI strategies and best practices for your organization.
