How to boost member engagement by investing in your learning program

Did you know that your organization’s learning program can increase member engagement? Because associations are viewed as the most trusted source for professional development and training, your continuing education program is one of your key value propositions.

According to Community Brands research, learning program benefits – including certifications and credentials, training opportunities, and targeted content– are some of the most important member benefits.

Now is the time to invest in your learning program and increase member engagement at your association. 

What is a learning program?
A learning program helps your members advance their education through curriculum that leads to certifications or credentials. Members can also join a learning program for professional development or training that builds on their existing educational foundation.

An association’s learning program can offer continuing education credits that are industry specific, advance professional development, or benefit a member personally by teaching soft skills.  

Why your association should invest in your learning program
Learning programs are a major member benefit. Community Brands research found that within the top five reasons a member joins an association are certifications and credentials, training options, and job opportunities.

The same study found that 47% of existing members identify certifications and credentials as their top member benefit. 45% of members said they valued targeted content and job opportunities and 44% valued training options.

4 ways your learning program can increase member engagement
Now that you know why your association should invest in its learning program, it’s time to get started! Boost member engagement when you follow these tips:

1. Streamline member enrollment with modern e-commerce
Your members utilize your member portal to complete vital member activities. Whether renewing their membership, purchasing learning courses, or registering for an event, these experiences should mirror one another. Streamline this process by removing any barriers to course enrollments or purchases when you integrate your association management software (AMS) with learning management software (LMS). 

Nimble AMS integrates with Crowd Wisdom LMS for a simplified course enrollment and purchase experience. Integrated shopping features empower members to purchase multiple items from the AMS and LMS through one checkout experience. Additionally, single sign-on allows members to seamlessly access both your AMS and LMS without multiple logins, preventing password fatigue and a poor user experience.

2. Provide a variety of content options
Ideally, your online learning program should serve as a full-blown knowledge community that supports and integrates live and on-demand content in many forms. Boost member engagement through a variety of year-round learning opportunities addressing members’ budgets, schedules, educational and certification needs, and learning preferences.

Members are now looking beyond your annual conference for training and continuing education opportunities. Your members desire a variety of learning opportunities including on-demand, micro-learning, just-in-time, and social learning.

3. Enhance your social learning community 
According to the LinkedIn Workplace Learning Report, learners who use social features watch 30x more hours of learning content than those who don’t. You can transform your online learning into an engagement hub with a social learning component. 
 
A unified community in your LMS encourages learners to collaborate and share knowledge within courses. Utilize the community to facilitate expert Q&A sessions, provide forums for specialty discussions, and allow course-specific conversations. Learners can also provide peer-to-peer feedback to strengthen the learning experience. 
 
Crowd Wisdom LMS includes a social learning community where learners can engage and collaborate with instructors and other learners. Drive engagement through course discussions, peer-to-peer feedback, and real-time Q&A sessions.

4. Offer career advancement opportunities
One of the top three reasons members join associations is career advancement. The next generation of members is continuing this trend—76% of Gen Z learners believe learning is the key to a successful career. Your learning program should be your members’ most trusted asset for lifelong career growth.

Community Brands research found that members see a return on investment in career advancement that comes from certifications and training opportunities. Not sure what training to offer? Ask members about their professional goals and challenges. Then, use the feedback to inform your association’s professional development opportunities. Consider also offering member training that goes beyond technical skills to include “soft” skills, such as communication and presentation skills to help members excel in the workplace.

To tie your learning program to members’ career growth, integrate your LMS and AMS with career center software. With this software integration, you can offer members personalized job and course recommendations. Crowd Wisdom LMS integrates with YM Careers to recommend relevant courses to job seekers and relevant jobs to learners based on job searches, resume content, or completed courses.


