How to nail your AMS proposal at your next board meeting

When it comes to needing board approval for new technology, it’s wise to prepare for your appeal. Perhaps your current software is outdated, and you believe new association management software (AMS) will help future-proof your organization.

Ensure your board understands your association’s technological needs, helping board members get on board to adopt new technology. When you properly prepare for your next board meeting, you’ll keep the conversation focused on setting the right direction for your organization.

Read our blog for tips to communicate better with your board, empowering your board members to future-proof your association with a modern AMS.    

3 ways to prepare for your next board meeting
To ensure your board members focus on the larger picture and embrace your vision for future-proofing the association, follow these helpful strategies:

1. Begin the conversation early. Your board shouldn’t be surprised when you address how your organization needs new technology. It’s likely your board members have experienced the same pain points that have helped you decide it’s time for a new AMS.

Help your board understand how the entire association could benefit from a technology upgrade by sharing the value of a new AMS. Start by highlighting the current technological shortcomings both your staff and members experience and detail how new technology will address these pain points. For example, are your employees currently feeling overworked and burdened by manual processes? Share how your new AMS has advanced technology solutions like automation to help streamline work processes.

Finally, wrap up the conversation with your AMS proposal, and by addressing the price tag. By first focusing on your association’s technological needs and then moving on to how a new AMS can help address these pain points, board members will be ready to hear your software proposal.  

2. Seek feedback. Work with your board members to uncover additional reasons your organization needs new technology. After presenting your association’s technological needs, leave time for feedback, ensuring your board has an opportunity to share their opinions and ask questions.

Work collaboratively with your board, asking for their help to answer questions like:

Is our organization currently experiencing any concerning pain points?
If we don’t address a specific pain point, will it go from concerning to alarming?
How is our current member experience?
How do we define member satisfaction? Are members currently satisfied?
Do members look to our organization as the go-to industry provider? 
Discussing these questions can help board members to better consider your association’s mission and determine how a new AMS will address your needs. It also ensures your board members focus on preparing your organization for the future. 

3. Boost collaboration. Engage your board members further by asking how they would like to participate in researching new technology. Next, plug your board members into their new roles. For example, look for a board member who is passionate about innovative technology to support your AMS research and buying process. If you have a board member who wants to improve the member experience, consider having them support a member town hall to discuss the value of new technology at your organization. 
 
Intentionally involving your board creates a team dynamic, ensuring you and your board members will be united during the AMS research and buying process. As you work together, you’ll increase communication between board members and executive leadership, helping to meet the technological needs of your association and successfully future proof.  