Innovative Nimble AMS returns to the 2023 ASAE Annual Meeting and Exposition

Our Nimble AMS team is returning to the 2023 ASAE Annual Meeting and Exposition in Atlanta, Georgia. We can’t wait to meet with thousands of association professionals, attend meaningful sessions, and get inspired to innovate.

Join us at ASAE 2023 on August 5-8. We’re looking forward to seeing you there!   

What is the 2023 ASAE Annual Meeting and Exposition?
ASAE 2023 is the premier event for association leaders to network, share knowledge, and grow from industry thought leaders. The theme of ASAE 2023 is “Shape Your Purpose,” encouraging association professionals to express their personal and organizational purposes.

The 2023 ASAE Annual Meeting and Exposition will offer innovative and engaging community-building experiences. During the three-day conference, you can attend over a hundred sessions designed to elevate your leadership and foster your association’s future.    

3 things the Nimble AMS team is looking forward to at ASAE Annual 2023 
Our Nimble AMS team can’t wait to attend #ASAE23! “I’m excited to show off all of the new and fun features we’ve grown Nimble AMS to include since last year’s conference!” said Collier Faubion, Nimble AMS Senior Solutions Engineer.

Here are our top reasons why we’re pumped for 2023 ASAE to begin:

1. Networking. Meeting with association professionals is one of the best parts of 2023 ASAE. “I’m excited to be back in Atlanta with my ASAE colleagues and friends for learning and networking opportunities,” said Howard Pollock, Nimble AMS Director of Sales.  
 
We look forward to the chance to network with you soon! Be sure to meet the Nimble AMS team at our booth, #401:

Jeff Bachelor—Sales Director
Jeff Golembiewski—VP of Business Solutions and Partnerships
Howard Pollock—Director of Sales
Susan Stewart Kelly—Senior Sales Directors
Collier Faubion—Senior Solutions Engineer
Michelle Schweitz—Senior Director of Marketing
2. Learning. With over a hundred sessions at ASAE 2023, there are plenty of opportunities for your organization to learn and grow. “This is the 8th ASAE Annual Meeting I’m attending. I look forward to connecting with association friends and attending our great customer sessions,” said Michelle Schweitz, Senior Director of Marketing.

Here are a few sessions that the Nimble AMS team is excited to attend

Disrupt and Deliver: How Associations Can Keep Up with Emerging Trends by Melissa Markus, Community Brands Senior VP of Sales. Attend this session to learn how to keep pace with changing trends of member expectations, learning, generations, and technology.
Something big is coming in September! Be on the lookout for the newest Community Brands Association Trends Study for more emerging association research.

What is My Competitor Doing Now by Tirrah Switzer, Community Brands Senior Director of Product Marketing. Attend this session to learn about how to develop a competitive intelligence strategy to secure your organization’s future.
PRECON: Innovation and Generative AI: An Immersive TEC Workshop
Critical Cybersecurity Fundamentals for Association Leaders by Brian Scott.
Artificial Intelligence for All, Responsibly by Jeff Lanham.
3. Exploring tech solutions. Power up your purpose at #ASAE23. See firsthand innovative solutions that will help to future-proof your association. Visit Nimble AMS at the Community Brands Booth, #401.  
The Nimble AMS team will demo our software on Sunday, August 6 at 1:00 PM. Don’t miss this chance to see how Nimble AMS can transform your association.

During the Nimble AMS Product Preview don’t miss our cash machine and your chance to win prizes!

