The United States Institute for Theatre Technology, Inc.

When USITT was ready to change association management software (AMS) to meet their evolving needs, they wanted an AMS built on the Salesforce CRM platform. They turned to Nimble AMS by Community Brands.

Because they moved from NetForum by Community Brands, the transition kept the organization within the same family of products, making the transition very efficient and seamless. Using Nimble AMS, USITT now automates many manual processes — saving staff time, reducing data entry errors, and improving the speed and accuracy of reporting.

“We set up processes and reports, and we don’t have to worry about them again,” said USITT Executive Director David Grindle. “Everyone gets the information they need when they need it, and we have more time to focus on our members. Everyone stays happy.”

David Grindle, Executive Director, USITT

Summary
USITT uses Nimble AMS for a Salesforce CRM platform-based member management solution that allows them to automate multiple processes to support their many member workshops and events.

Challenges
USITT wanted their association management software (AMS) to be built on the Salesforce platform for reliability and flexibility. They also
wanted an AMS that could help them work more efficiently and accurately – even as their organization grew and evolved.

Results
USITT saves about 20 hours of staff time per project, freeing staff to focus on member relationships versus mundane tasks such as entering data and sending reports and emails. As a result, the organization sees fewer data entry errors and more accurate reports.

““Community Brands made changing our AMS the easiest transition we’ve ever experienced because the Nimble AMS and NetForum teams
worked directly together within the Community Brands umbrella of companies. Our staff didn’t have to coordinate between two companies,
which saved us time and hassle and avoided the danger of us making mistakes as the go-between.”

David Grindle, Executive Director, USITT

