Why medical associations choose Nimble AMS

Is your medical association looking for cutting-edge member management tools? It might be time to adopt modern association management software (AMS).  
 
Not all AMS platforms are built the same. Learn how choosing Nimble AMS, built on Salesforce, can empower your medical professionals, scale your organization, and amplify your mission. 

Why do medical associations choose Nimble AMS? 
Medical associations choose Nimble AMS for intuitive member management solutions, professional development features, modern e-commerce options, advanced accounting and financial reporting, and exclusive Nimble AMS tools.

Here’s how Nimble AMS can empower your medical professionals and advance your impact in healthcare:  
1.Member management. Efficiently track and organize complex membership structures and boost member engagement.
2.Professional development. Enhance member continuing education by managing certification and accreditation programs.
3.E-commerce. Leverage the Nimble AMS Lightning Store to offer a variety of payment options and empower guest donations and event registrations.
4.Accounting. Advance your medical association’s financial reports with valuable balance information and robust reporting.
5.Exclusive Nimble AMS tools. When you choose Nimble AMS, you gain access to Nimble Query, Nimble Create, and Nimble Fuse at no additional cost.

What are the top examples of medical associations that leverage Nimble AMS? 
Many medical associations turn to Nimble AMS to empower medical professionals and scale their organizations. Here are examples of top medical associations that successfully leverage Nimble AMS: 
1.The American Diabetes Association (ADA)
2.The North American Association of Central Cancer Registries (NAACCR)
3.The American Society for the Surgery of the Hand (ASSH)
4.The Massachusetts Dental Society (MDS)
5.The American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery (ASCRS) 

Why should your medical association choose Nimble AMS? 
Nimble AMS offers cutting-edge association management software (AMS) for your medical association. Learn how Nimble AMS can advance your mission and support your medical professionals: 

Do you want to reduce redundancies, simplify processes, and improve the staff and member experience with a report dashboard? Nimble AMS has you covered. The American Diabetes Association (ADA) leverages Nimble AMS to optimize processes and scale its organization. Read the ADA + Nimble AMS success story to learn more.
“We love the dashboards. And reports that used to take days now take minutes to pull. Our management team is happy with timely data that is shared.” —Lori Rainford, Vice President, Constituent Engagement of the American Diabetes Association

Do you want to scale your organization and enhance the staff and member experience with an intuitive and user-friendly portal? Nimble AMS can help! 
 
The North American Association of Central Cancer Registries (NAACCR) left a legacy system for Nimble AMS and has embraced continuous innovation to advance its organization. Read the NAACCR + Nimble AMS success story to learn more.  

“We had a great implementation, with no issues at all. No question was ever off the table. We ended up with a great system and with exactly what we wanted.” —Tyler Scott, Web and Technology Developer at North American Association of Central Cancer Registries

Are you ready to eliminate low–value work and drive innovation throughout your medical association? Nimble AMS is the solution. 
 
The American Society for the Surgery of the Hand (ASSH) automated hundreds of organizational processes to save valuable staff time. Read the ASSH + Nimble AMS success story to learn more.

“With Nimble AMS, built on the Salesforce platform, we now have constant innovation with each seasonal release. This means we get to leverage things like automation, AI, chatbots… Better yet? Because it is intuitive, the staff at ASSH is excited and empowered to find new ways to leverage the technology.” —Jake Adler, Chief Technology Officer at ASSH

Are you looking for technology to enhance your medical association’s ROI with modern e-commerce options? Turn to Nimble AMS!  
 
The Massachusetts Dental Society (MDS) increased its sales and boosted ROI by leveraging the Nimble AMS Lightning Store. Read the MDS + Nimble AMS success story to learn more.

“The Nimble AMS team is very innovative. Working with their team, we’ve enhanced our association’s ROI and strengthened member value through the digital transformation of many of our processes.” —Nicole Bowen, Digital Solutions Architect, MDS

Does your medical association need to centralize data and enhance the staff user experience? Choose Nimble AMS.  
 
The American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery (ASCRS) leveraged Nimble AMS robust reporting to centralize data and simplify the staff experience. Read the ASCRS + Nimble AMS success story to learn more. 

“Our members and staff love the new AMS and we have had nothing but great feedback from everyone who uses it…We have been extremely happy with our decision to go with Nimble AMS and if I had to do it all over again, would choose them with no hesitation.” — Rich Mraz, Director of IT, American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery
